NEWS for Fabula
===============

0.8.3
-----

Released on 27 June 2012.

There are a lot of changes in this release.

fabula.interfaces is now a package. Added module interfaces.replay, containing 
PythonReplayInterface, and the script 'run_pygame_replay.py' which replays 
Fabula game logs.

The classes Event, Message, Entity and Tile now have a JSON representation.
Added fabula.interfaces.json_rpc which implements a JSON-RPC server interface.
Added a JSON-RPC doctest.

Removed mouse-based scrolling in PygameUserInterface. Insted the screen will 
scroll when the player has moved one Tile away from the window border.

PygameUserInterface now uses the surfacecatcher module for screen capturing.
Press 'F2' to start capturing, and check with 'F1' whether the recorder runs.

'clickndrag', the graphics engine behind Fabula, has been renamed to 'planes'. 
Fabula now uses a new 'planes' version which allows for slick GUI elements with 
bitmap backgrounds. They are used in all GUI elements in the game now, while the 
editor keeps the old style.

Fabula will now display SaysEvents longer that 10 characters at the bottom of 
the screen, preparing for a style known from other RPG and adventure games.

The Fabula server can now be run without Pygame installed.

Lots of fixes, improvements, and a documentation update.


0.8.2
-----

Released on 11 February 2012.

This release makes server and client dis/reconnection much more reliable, adding 
ExitEvent and making the server more tolereant towards abrupt client exits. On 
the client side, the user will be warned when server replies take too long. 
Console and file log levels are hardwired now. The server will now listen on 
port '0xfab' (4011), and display a friendly interface on the console. 
PygameUserInterface now has an on-screen display which will display statistics 
upon F1. Lots of fixes and improvements, API changes in fabula.run, and a 
documentation update.


0.8.1
-----

Released on 31 January 2012.

Improved room and multiplayer handling on the server side. In the Pygame client, 
the room scrolling amount is now based on the framerate. There now is a check 
for window focus before the window scrolls. The client now centers the room 
plane on the player Entity, while snapping the room to the display edges. Also, 
handling of DeleteEvent is finally implemented. When performing PickUp and Drop, 
all eight positions surrounding the player are considered now instead of just 
four. The property window of the Pygame editor will display large entities 
correctly now. Overall exception handling has been improved, Fabula exits 
cleanly upon an exception in most cases now. Log file names now include the 
process id, making it possible to run parallel clients from the same directory 
without conflicts. Lots of minor changes, fixes, cleanups, and a documentation 
update.


0.8.0
-----

Released on 12 January 2012.

The main feature of this release is the re-introduction of TCP networking which 
had been disabled in all previous releases of Fabula. Networking is handled by 
TCPClientInterface and TCPServerInterface, using only modules from the Python 
standard library. Server networking is multithreaded, with a new thread for 
every incoming connection. Players will now be prompted for server IP and port. 
Two new scripts have been added, which start a networking enabled server and 
client. The PygameUserInterface now highlights entities and buttons on 
mouseover, using a new clickndrag feature. Other new features are truly immobile 
entities, improved thread handling and cleanups in logging. Lots of minor fixes 
and improvements as well as a documentation update.


0.7.0
-----

Released on 19 July 2011.

This version comes with new demo game art, taken from the "Whispers of Avalon" 
open source game project. Fabula entities now support horizontal sprite sheets 
for walking animations, including one-column sprite sheets for just a front / 
left / right / back view without animation. The editor now opens a screen of the 
same size as the game screen and supports the SaysEvent. Fabula now features a 
server-side command-line interface - start run_pygame_cli.py to give it a try. 
setup.py has been fixed to finally work with vanilla Python distutils alongside 
cx_Freeze. Fabula source releases will be in ZIP format for the time being since 
tarballs created by distutils preserve symbolic links (see 
http://bugs.python.org/issue12585). Minor fixes, cleanups and documentation 
update.


0.6.0
-----

Released on 14 April 2011.

Fabula now supports rooms larger than the screen in client and editor. Changed 
the underlying rendering architecture to pre-render backgrounds and resize 
bitmaps to fit the size of the room. Moving the mouse to the edges of the window 
triggers horizontal scrolling. Loading large background images in the editor now 
creates a room of an appropriate size. Fabula applications now read options from 
a config file, most prominently the 'fullscreen' option. Minor fixes and 
documentation update.


0.5.0
-----

Released on 6 April 2011.

Logging refactoring, with a lot of cleanups. Fabula now makes use of several log 
levels. PygameEditor now offers a full-fledged Entity editor. The properties 
plane now displays more information. Using the new clickndrag API to prevent 
entity captions from popping up in the wrong places. Refactored plane ordering 
when processing MovesToEvents: entities now correctly overlap each other, 
depending on their vertical position. Action icons now move with the entity that 
has been clicked on. Changed the pathfinding to make entities stop when they can 
not get any closer to their target. Included a default room in the distribution, 
with free game art from Danc (www.lostgarden.com). Documentation update.


0.4.0
-----

Released on 25 March 2011.

Added Entity.blocking and Entity.mobile flags, to be evaluated by the server 
when processing attempt events. Code processing pick up attempts now checks 
whether Entity.mobile is True. Improved pathfinding, preventing entities from 
wandering around when the target is blocked. Minor fixes and documentation 
update.


0.3.0
-----

Released on 23 March 2011.

Removed the action icons from the inventory. Instead, they pop up when 
right-clicking an entity. Refactoring of PygameEntity captions. The inventory 
now features a background image which can also be customised. Changes in the 
display of SaysEvents. Adapted plugins.pygameui to clickndrag API changes. 
Fabula games can now be played in full screen, and pressing ESCAPE will quit the 
game. Several bug fixes in the DefaultGame server plugin and 
PygameUserInterface.


0.2.0
-----

Released on 11 March 2011.

Refactoring of the client-server connection procedure. The User Interface now 
displays a splash screen and then asks the player for a login and connection 
details. Moved all timing and event queueing from client to server. The default 
condition-response game logic now allows for a tuple of response events. The 
logic is now stored in a plain text file. Lots of improvements in the user 
interface, most prominently captions for entities and implementation of entity 
conversation. Improved support for Entity subclasses. Update to the new 
clickndrag API. Docs update and a lot of fixes and enhancements under the hood.


0.1.0
-----

Released on 13. January 2011.

This is the first alpha release and probably only useful for a sneak peek. The 
API is still likely to change. API docs are included, but end user documentation 
is still missing. The included editor and Pygame engine are still work in 
progress.
